Fig. 2 | Sequencing based approaches to probing chromatin structure and organization. 
Different sequencing based approaches to understanding nuclear architecture reveal different principles of chromatin organization at different resolutions.
a. | Proximity capture workflow: The panel indicates a general workflow for proximity capture, a technique used in all 3C-derived methods. Typically, chromatin is fixed using a crosslinking agent, cut with a restriction enzyme, filled and labeled with biotinylated nucleotides, ligated, then sheared and pulled down via streptavidin. The library of ligation products is then processed, typically by next generation sequencing
b. | Hi-C: Early Hi-C detected genome-wide contact frequencies at ~100 kb max resolution. In 2009, eigenvector analysis was used to split the genome into 2 large multi-Mb sized compartments based on the sign of the first component of PCA named A and B. A and B compartments correlate with accessible and inaccessible chromatin, respectively. In 2012, triangular patterns clearly emerged, leading to the identification of large contact domains called TADs (see also fig. 2c, bottom - green, orange, blue triangles).
c. | 4C and In situ Hi-C: At ~1 kb max resolution, there are two commonly used 3C-derived methods: 4C (top) detects long-range chromatin contacts with a single viewpoint which are thought to occur by looping. In situ Hi-C (bottom) detects genome-wide contact domains. Contact domains are used here to refer to larger TADs (green, blue, and orange triangles), nested contact domains (light orange and blue triangles), and loop domains (dark red dot). Contact domains with corner dots are annotated as loop domains (dark red dot). In 2014 with 1 kb resolution in situ Hi-C, corner dots were observed which are flanked by convergent CTCF binding sites (purple arrows). In addition, TADs are often flanked by CTCF, but not always (green triangle). In 2017, in situ Hi-C eigenvector analysis revealed large compartments were actually composed of much finer compartmental domains which accurately correspond with transcriptionally active regions (green contact domain with red/blue stripes shows how domains contain A/B compartmental domain switches).
d. | Micro-C: At a max resolution of ~200 bp, Micro-C detects E-P contact domains and E-P stripes which connect E-P and P-P sites. These contact domains enclose as little as 1 to 2 genes and cannot be detected by in situ Hi-C. E-P domains/stripes may represent transcriptional hubs of local high concentrations of transcriptional machinery and enhancer activity.
Fig. 3 | Imaging based approaches to probing chromatin structure and organization. 
The heterogeneity of nuclear architecture at the single cell level is revealed by various imaging methods. The relevant chromatin structures that each method can observe is determined by the multiplexing ability and the maximum imaging resolution (shown here both for super-resolution and diffraction limited cases).
a. | Multiplexed FISH: Standard fluorescence In-Situ Hybridization (FISH) uses fluorescently tagged DNA probes in order to visualize genomic loci of interest in fixed cells. By separating fluorescent readout and target binding into separate probes, successive loci can be imaged under mild conditions, with successive multiplexing limited only by a DNA hybridization barcode size (middle). When applied to a region of up to several megabases, the median distance between pairs of loci can be calculated, giving a single-cell contact map matrix (left). If this method is combined with super-resolution imaging, as in OligoSTORM and ORCA, loci can be localized to within 10nm.
b. | Targeted-loci protein methods: Target loci in live cells can be imaged via protein fusions of DNA binding domains and fluorescent protein readout domains. Native loci can be targeted with dCas9, whereas other methods such as ANCHOR/parS and LacO/LacI require insertion of recognition sites at desired loci. Multiplexing is limited by fluorescent protein color, with only around four simultaneous probes remaining distinguishable. Within this multiplexing restriction, dynamic enhancer-promoter contacts and transcription-mediated locus motion has been studied in live cells.
c. | Tagged histones: Expression of a fluorescent protein-tagged histone allows for visualization of nearly all of the nucleosomes in the nucleus of live cells. When standard diffraction-limited imaging is used, the motion and location of large scale chromatin structures have been observed. Tagging instead with photoactivatable fluorescent proteins allows for super-resolution localization of histones within a subset of the nucleus. 
d. | EM/SXT: Non-fluorescent methods such as electron microscopy and soft X-ray tomography allow for greater resolution than even super-resolution methods, with maximum resolution approaching one nanometer. These methods have been used to study nuclear architecture at the single-nucleosome scale and have revealed that chromatin remains heterogenous at this smallest scale.
Fig. 4 | Sequencing and imaging based approaches: an integrated view to understand dynamic chromatin structures and organization.
Sequencing and imaging based methods reveal complementary information at different length scales to help approach an understanding of dynamic nuclear architecture.[a] The panel depicts the lengths scales covered by commonly used sequencing methods (4a) and imaging methods (4c), and the relevant chromatin structures (4b). 


a. | Sequencing methods: Early Hi-C can detect chromatin structures that are ~100 kb to over 1 Mb. Modern 3C-based protocols use in situ proximity ligation, allowing 1 kb resolution. In situ Hi-C and 4C are commonly used sequencing based methods to detect ~1 kb to 1 Mb structures genome-wide and at a single locus, respectively. Most recently, Micro-C has been developed to detect genome-wide structures at the ~100 bp to 100 kb scale by using an MNase digest step.


c. | Imaging methods: Microscopy techniques give single-cell resolution views of chromatin architecture, with the resolution of these methods determined by their multiplexing and localization ability. Histone fusion methods mark all nucleosomes and are suitable for whole-nucleus imaging, but can also be used with superresolution methods to identify individual nucleosome clutches. Histone fusion methods can be used to image ~1 kb to over 1 Mb [b][c]chromatin structures. Multiplexed FISH methods using ~100 probes can image genomic regions from ~10 kb to ~1 Mb. Targeted loci methods can precisely locate specific loci, but are difficult to multiplex. Finally, non-fluorescent methods such as EM and SXT give high resolution views of chromatin fibers.[d]










b. | Relevant chromatin structures: Different chromatin structures are relevant at different length scales. At over 1 Mb


1Mb: At length scales approaching the nucleus size, interphase chromosomes are densely packed into the nucleus. Left: Chromatin is classified into A/B compartments, with the A compartment, shown in red, containing epigenetically- and transcriptionally-active euchromatin and the B compartment, shown in blue, containing typically inactive heterochromatin. Lamina associated domains (LADs) are identified regions of chromatin that preferentially colocalize to the nuclear lamina, and are typically transcriptionally silent. Right: Interphase chromosomes broadly separate into chromosome territories (multicolored). While inter-chromosome contacts have been measured, intra-chromosome contacts are more common due to the spatial localization of these territories.
100kb-1Mb: Within a chromosome, contact domains larger than 100kb, originally identified as triangles in Hi-C data, separate chromatin into regions where intra-region contacts are more frequent than inter-region contacts. Some of these contact domains are identified as loop domains (domains containing dots in Hi-C data). Architectural proteins, such as CTCF and cohesin in mammalian cells, have been implicated in the formation of these domains.
1kb-100kb: On the length scale spanning several genes, smaller nested contact domains have been identified. Processes including coding- and noncoding-RNA transcription, supercoiling, and phase separation have all been implicated in shaping and modifying these contact domains. With techniques such as Micro-C, close contacts and extended interactions (forming E-P ‘stripes’) between enhancers and promoters have been observed.
100bp-1kb: On the length scale of individual nucleosomes, chromatin is highly heterogeneous. Instead of a relatively static 30-nm chromatin fiber observed in vitro, high-resolution imaging techniques have revealed nucleosome clutches which vary in size depending on the local underlying state. Physical processes with energies not exceeding a few kT such as transcription factor binding[e] and transcription dynamically reshape this epigenetic and biophysical substrate.
[a]reword
[b]trying to group into rough categories (100bp, 1kb, 100 kb, 1Mb, 1+Mb) with details more fleshed out in paper
[c]Can revert tho  - also check to make sure still accurate
[d]Update ranges
[e]Add a TF to the bottom view.